# Anomalies

## Player controlled Anomalies

This is a wide variety of anomalies and anomalous objects which a party member could use. The weapons and tools classified as anomalies should provide the players with novel and creative opportunities and abilities. Anomalies can be generated by using the [Magic Rules](https://goblinarchives.github.io/LiminalHorror/Liminal%20Horror%20System/Magic/) from Liminal Horror which are reskinned to anomalous items or abilities or by using the following tables.

### Step 1: Anomaly Power Source (2d6)

| Roll | 1-3 | 4-6 |  Description Flavor | Fatigue Flavor |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Physical Effect + Magical Form | Ethereal Effect + Magical Form | Witch Craft / Occult | The anomaly drains the energy from the player or requires a sacrifice of the energy from a nearby entity or energy source. |
| 2 | Physical Effect + Living Form | Ethereal Effect + Living Form | Creature / Construct / Alien | The anomaly is a living this that may require nourishment. It may have its own desires and run away from the player after used. |
| 3 | Physical Effect + Animate Form | Ethereal Effect + Animate Form | Sentient / Plant / Cursed | The anomaly is a usually benign item that cannot move or communicate on its own. It may lose its anomalous properties if over used. |
| 4 | Physical Effect + Technological Form | Elemental Effect + Technological Form  | Electrical / Mechanical | The anomaly is powered by electricity, batteries, or some limited resource. It may be prone to overheating, burning or shocking the user. |
| 5 | Physical Effect + Infectious Form | Ethereal Effect + Infectious Form | Parasitic / Diseased | The anomaly is infectious or requires a host. Using the anomaly saps the energy from a player. |
| 6 | Physical Effect + Psychic Form | Ethereal Effect + Psychic Form | Memetic / Anti-memetic | The anomaly has psychic abilities. Use of this anomaly wears on the psyche of the player. |

### Step 2: Anomaly Function (2d6)

#### Effects

##### Ethereal Effect

| Roll | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Avenging | Compelling | Dispelling | Excruciating | Nullifying | Soothing
| 2 | Banishing | Concealing | Emboldening | Foreseeing | Paralyzing | Summoning
| 3 | Bewildering | Deafening | Encoding | Intoxicating | Revealing | Terrifying
| 4 | Blinding | Deceiving | Energizing | Maddening | Revolting | Warding
| 5 | Charming | Deciphering | Enlightening | Mesmerizing | Scrying | Wearying
| 6 | Communicate | Disguising | Enraging | Mind Reading | Silencing | Withering

##### Physical Effect

| Roll | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Animating | Crushing | Fusing | Levitating | Reﬂecting | Sealing
| 2 | Attracting | Diminishing | Grasping | Opening | Regenerating | Shapeshifting
| 3 | Binding | Dividing | Hastening | Petrifying | Rending | Shielding
| 4 | Blossoming | Duplicating | Hindering | Phasing | Repelling | Spawning
| 5 | Consuming | Enveloping | Illuminating | Piercing | Resurrecting | Transmuting
| 6 | Creeping | Expanding | Imprisoning | Pursuing | Screaming | Transporting

#### Form (d12)

| Roll | Magical Form | Living Form | Animate Form | Technological Form | Infectious Form | Psychic Form |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Beam | Automaton | Bag | Cascade | Blood | Aura |
| 2 | Blast | Bird | Blade | Chain | Bone | Card |
| 3 | Bolt | Eye | Crystal | Clock | Flesh | Dance |
| 4 | Cloak | Golem | Doll | Device | Fungus | Dream |
| 5 | Cloud | Heart | Helmet | Field | Mold | Flight |
| 6 | Crown | Insect | Jar | Goggles | Mutagen | Fog |
| 7 | Dagger | Munchkin | Journal | Gun | Plague | Harmony |
| 8 | Ghost | Pet | Leaf | Nexus | Poison | Light |
| 9 | Lightning | Rat | Mask | Portal | Rot | Memory |
| 10 | Mist | Serpent | Note | Robot | Slime | Mind |
| 11 | Shower | Tentacle | Tablet | Shield | Spray | Song |
| 12 | Stone | Worm | Vine | Sphere | Swarm | Whisper |

With an Anomaly Power Source, Effect, and Form a player should discuss the mechanics of the anomaly with the Facilitator. Per the Liminal Horror magic rules, spells are only usable once per day with the player generating a new spell each day. This may not be thematic with anomalies. The Facilitator should consider ways for the players to reuse an anomaly while limiting the number of times a player can use it per day. See the [Fatigue Flavor](#step-1-anomaly-power-source-2d6) for ideas on limiting anomaly uses.

### Step 3: Anomaly Age (d6)

This describes the age of the anomaly and the information sources that the player could use to investigate the anomaly. This may or may not have impact on the gameplay depending on the Facilitator. This may also be constant to set a particular theme for the setting. A player with additional information about their anomaly may have a better understanding of its capabilities and better prepared for the consequences of using the anomaly.

| Roll | Age / Origin | Visual Style and Information Origin |
|-|-|-|
| 1 | Prehistoric | This anomaly is older than humanity. It is either powered by magic or was built by something other than humans. |
| 2 | Ancient / Medieval | This anomaly is very old that its powers may be described by myth and legend. It is made from metal, wood, stone, and animal products. |
| 3 | Victorian/Steampunk | The anomaly is old and is made from mostly metal, wood, leather, and glass. There may be old books or journals describing the anomaly, and its discoverer or inventor. |
| 4 | Modern | The anomaly is made of mostly modern materials. The design could be familiar or be a few decades out of date. It could have been made by a secretive company or government. |
| 5 | Futuristic | This anomaly was built with technology more advanced than current humanity. It may be from the future or from aliens. |
| 6 | Imperceptible / Extra-Dimensional | The anomaly is either invisible or its physical form not understandable to the player. Information may be available to cult or Foundation members who interacted with this or similar anomalies. |

## Anomaly Classification System (ACS)

See SCP wiki [page](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/anomaly-classification-system-guide) for more details.

### Clearance Level

Information about anomalies have different clearance levels. If the players have access to Foundation information systems, their clearance determines how much information they could access. Civilians, Cultists, and D-Class have little access to information from the foundation, but may have access through other means. Foundation personnel may be given access to certain information depending on the situation.

* Level 1: Unrestricted (UR) - Civilians, Cultists, and D-Class personnel may know about this information through local news or rumors. All Foundation employees have access. Files can be looked up by accessing the Foundation's network or by contacting appropriate personnel.
* Level 2: Restricted (RS) - Persons involved with an anomaly or its research may have access to this information. Civilians, D-Class, Maintenance, and low level Researchers probably do not know this information.
* Level 3: Confidential (CF) - Only Foundation employees directly involved with research or containment would know or have access this information.
* Level 4: Secret (SC) - Information only available to the Foundation administration. This may be shared to certain staff as needed.
* Level 5: Top Secret (TS) -  Information only available to the highest Foundation administration, higher than site specific administration. Requests for level 5 information without level 5 access is always denied.
* Level 6: Cosmic Top Secret (CTS) - Only O5 Council members have access. Information may be shared at the discretion of an O5 Council member, though this information is generally of the sort that describes world wide or greater threats.

### Containment Class

The containment class describes how easy an anomaly can be contained, this does not describe the disruptive ability or the risk class of the anomaly, only how easy it is to keep it. The Facilitator may pick a certain classification to define for inspiration about the anomalies the players encounter without telling the players the classification. As a general rule, if the Foundation does not know about an anomaly it is **Pending** and if something is within a Foundation facility is is likely **Safe**, **Euclid**, **Keter**. Anomalies that are **Explained** or **Neutralized** may be hidden from the public but are not anomalous.

**Pending:** The Foundation does not have a classification for this anomaly yet. If players encounter a new anomaly and search for it in Foundation records it may come back as Pending.

![pending-image]

**Explained:** The anomaly has been explained with some other non-anomalous phenomenon. This could be used as a red-herring for players. Some of the weirdness that they investigate may be abnormal, but explainable.

![explained-image]

**Neutralized:** The anomaly has been deactivated in some way. Players could work towards neutralizing an anomaly or activating a previously neutralized anomaly.

![neutralized-image]

**Safe:** Easy to contain. Players could create a way to contain a Safe anomaly without much help from the Foundation with appropriate planning and gear. Containment may be as simple as a cardboard box.

![safe-image]

**Euclid:** Moderately difficult to contain and keep from being neutralized. Living entities are at a minimum Euclid because they require interaction to keep alive. Players may be able to plan and construct a way to contain it, but would be unsure if their solution will permanently contain it. Neutralizing the anomaly may be possible but is not the currently desired option.

![euclid-image]

**Keter:** Difficult to contain. Players should struggle to contain a Keter-class anomaly. It may be too big, too clever, impervious to restraints, or too dangerous for the players to contain without external help. A party of only Civilians or D-Class personnel would have no normal way to contain a Keter-class anomaly. Their goal would be to survive and contact outside help.

![keter-image]

**Esoteric:** Not easily classified into the other categories, see **Secondary Class**.

![esoteric-image]

### Secondary Class

If the containment class is **Esoteric** then there are a variety of [secondary classifications](https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/esoteric-classes-complete-list) for more accurately classifying the anomaly. Anomalies with Esoteric properties could provide an interesting story and challenges for the players since these are normally more complex than  monsters or powerful artefacts. Players could be granted access to a **Thaumiel** class anomaly to counteract another anomaly.

**Thaumiel:** Anomalies used by the Foundation to contain other anomalies. Accessing this anomaly would require a dire situation involving a **Keter** or problematic **Esotetic** class anomalies. This could be used as a race-against-time plot where the players must rush to deploy the **Thaumiel** to contain the other anomaly before it causes significant damage.

![thaumiel-image]

### Disruption Class Options

These classifications describe how disruptive the anomaly is to the public and how difficult it would be for the Foundation to clean up after a containment breach.

**Dark:** The disruption caused by this anomaly is negligible. The anomaly only affects a single individual. The anomalies used by the Civilian or D-Class player characters are probably Dark-class. The Foundation would not care if these anomalies were used to clean up a higher disruption class anomaly.

![dark-image]

**Vlam:**  The disruption caused by this anomaly is local to a few people. The Foundation would find it simple to neutralize clean up the effects. Foundation personnel with appropriate clearances may be given access to Vlam-class anomalies to contain another, more disruptive anomaly.

![vlam-image]

**Keneq:**  The disruption caused by this anomaly effects a city's worth of people. The Foundation considers these anomalies moderately difficult to neutralize the effects. This is an appropriate level for the overall disruption class for player characters to attempt to contain as Civilians, Cultists, or D-Class.

![keneq-image]

**Ekhi:**  The disruption caused by this anomaly could effect a large city to an entire country. The Foundation would find it difficult to neutralize and contain all the effects. This is an appropriate disruption class for cultist player characters trying to unleash a horror upon the world or the final boss of facility staff trying to stop a breach in containment.

![ekhi-image]

**Amida:** This disruption is world or possible universe wide. The Foundation's only option is to neutralize this anomaly. This could work as a time challenge for player characters. There is limited time left before the entire world is effected by the anomaly. With all of the resources of the Foundation at your back, neutralize this anomaly.

![amida-image]

### Risk Class Options

These classifications describe the level of effect an anomaly has, based on the effect range, time, and danger.

**Notice:**  The anomaly has negligible to mild effects. These pose no danger to nearby people. Utility anomalies used by players are Notice class. It would be difficult to directly kill someone with this anomaly without creativity or effort. These anomalies could be use discretely without alerting NPC civilians.

![notice-image]

**Caution:**  The anomaly has mild to moderate effects. These pose mild danger to nearby people. More powerful utility anomalies used by players are Caution class. It would be possible to directly kill someone with this anomaly with some effort. These anomalies' effects could alert NPC civilians.

![caution-image]

**Warning:**  The anomaly has moderate to significant effects. These pose moderate danger to nearby people. Anomalies which directly cause damage should be Warning or higher. The anomalies the players are trying to contain should be Warning or higher if they have detectable influence at a decent range. These could also be tracked down by finding out information from rumors.

![warning-image]

**Danger:**  The anomaly has significant to extreme effects. These pose significant danger to nearby people. These are the standard anomaly class players will need to deal with during containment breach situation. For example, any hostile anomalous entity which may overpower a single D-Class is Warning at a minimum.

![danger-image]

**Critical:**  The anomaly has instant or extremely severe effects. These pose extremely danger to nearby people, instant death or incapacitation is expected. These anomalies could instantly kill one or more players. These could server as the ultimate challenge for the players, or as an option for to counter another anomaly. Generally the players will have difficulty controlling with type without a good understanding of its properties.

![critical-image]

[//]: # (Image References)
[pending-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/pending-icon.svg
[explained-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/explained-icon.svg
[neutralized-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/neutralized-icon.svg
[safe-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/safe-icon.svg
[euclid-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/euclid-icon.svg
[keter-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/keter-icon.svg
[esoteric-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/esoteric-icon.svg
[thaumiel-image]: https://scp-wiki.wdfiles.com/local--files/component%3Aanomaly-class-bar/thaumiel-icon.svg

[dark-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/dark-icon.svg
[vlam-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/vlam-icon.svg
[keneq-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/keneq-icon.svg
[ekhi-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/ekhi-icon.svg
[amida-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/amida-icon.svg

[notice-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/notice-icon.svg
[caution-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/caution-icon.svg
[warning-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/warning-icon.svg
[danger-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/danger-icon.svg
[critical-image]: https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/local--files/component:anomaly-class-bar/critical-icon.svg

<style type="text/css"> img {width: 100px;} </style>
